Chapter 1 The day looked fine, Jake Hazzard thought as he woke up, a day when something good just had to happen. He blinked — why do I feel so sure of that? There seemed nothing unusual around for an early summer day, just the morning sky framed in the window, a very pale blue, and a few rags of cloud on the horizon. A gentle wind drifted in, already warm and dry. As he rolled out of bed the vague threads of dreams that had been flashing through his brain all night suddenly wove together into a total fabric — for just long enough to see how important it might be. Best he get it down on paper, and soon, before it all vanished, the way dreams mostly do. So he sat down at the keyboard, opened Word and started typing. Just a sentence or two would do. But when he looked up bright sunshine was pouring into the room and maybe three hundred words were down. He read through it, frowning slightly. Yes, this would do, he could see now where it was going. So he saved it, moved through to the kitchen, and sat down to what passed for breakfast. Just minutes later the door opened and Rupe Zalinski came in, clad in just a towel. Rupe was one of the four people who shared this house. ‘Great day,’ he observed as he sat down. ‘One of the best. The beach?’ His friend frowned. ‘Can’t. Got something due in on Monday. Work, work!’ ‘Maybe if you actually did the work instead of dreaming your solar energy fantasies…’ ‘Don’t talk down the sun, Jakey boy, that’s our future, that great big golden sun. I’ve got my sun, you’ve got your mud-patches.’ Jake laughed with him. ‘So full of go, this early! Funny you mentioned mud. I was thinking about mud, in a dream, you know, then a voice said, think about the tides. Tides, they can be huge, they come and go, they’re like a clock, in fact once people used to tell the time by them.’ ‘If you say so… King Canute got his feet wet from them, didn’t he?…and what’ve they got to do with mud?’ ‘Dunno, but…’ ‘Must’ve been God talking to you, giving you a crook steer, maybe?’ ‘You’re a crazy wog, Zalinski!’ ‘You mean you don’t believe in God…? Anyway, you pushing trolleys today?’ ‘No trolleys, down to the beach for me.’ Jake still felt on top of the world as he ran down the hill, the big curve of the ocean smiling up at him, wondering about that idea — such a far-out one really, but it could happen, it should happen. Jake, in his last year of an engineering degree, had to struggle with his assignments because he put in twenty hours a week at the supermarket to get money. Looking at it objectively, Jake’s life was a struggle, but he never saw it that way. The old, thinking back wistfully to those bubbles of joy of long ago, would say of course he wouldn’t. It seemed easy to be happy when you were young, boundless energy, lissome bodies, all of life in front of you. So why weren’t they happy, so many of them? At the beach the sea was quiet, with the wind offshore the surf was hardly there at all. Half a dozen people were out, lazing on their boards, waiting for waves that weren’t going to come. Jake got in and swam well out past the break, where most people didn’t go. They were scared of sharks, and with good reason. There were plenty of them, great whites too, along this Indian Ocean coast. Jake wasn’t any different, but, on his back staring up at the sky, he thought this was the sharks’ place, so… The beach seemed another world seen from out here, the usual family parties, kids playing in the sand, mums sunning on a towel, dads eventually getting into the water. Jake had watched them before as they walked into the water, got wet up to the chest, then came out again, a kind of ritual. Most of them didn’t actually swim. He wondered why not, when the water was so beautiful, a pale green blue, so clear you could see every grain of sand on the bottom. Back on the sand he decided to go for a run, but after a few paces something heavy brushed against his leg. He stumbled and almost fell, then stopped and looked around. It was a dog, quite a large dog, some Alsatian, some Labrador, he thought. It was looking up at him expectantly, so Jake leaned down, rubbed it behind the ears and met the gaze from those intelligent eyes, as