enough for, probably, producing as much power as our total national output is now.’ Charles pursed his lips. ‘Then that’s big, very big, it should put tidal power very much back on the map.’ ‘Even bigger, I can see an energy corridor across the deserts from the Kimberley to Adelaide — enough high voltage direct current power lines to carry huge amounts of tidal and solar power to the national grid. A road — a highway — would run parallel to those power lines. And all the way along, sitting in the perpetual sunshine, solar thermal power collectors. That corridor could provide the entire nation with all the power it could use, perpetual energy security.’ ‘The whole of Australia? That’s a big call.’ ‘It could do it easily’, Jake said. ‘There are also two big bays with narrow entrances not far north of Derby, Walcott Inlet and Secure Bay. These will probably be the best early prospects. Dams housing modern bi-directional turbine generators across those entrances and both would be natural tidal lagoons.’ Charles sighed deeply. ‘How great to be young…anything’s possible. Still, I grant you those are interesting ideas, and ones I’ve not heard of before. A pity it’ll never happen.’ ‘It will happen. It has to happen.’ Jake said stubbornly. ‘There could be a huge industry there. We’ve got half the world’s population sitting next to us. They’ve got two really big needs to get themselves together — energy and decent housing. There are millions living in flimsy shacks that are being knocked down already by cyclones, earthquakes, flooding. It’s not good enough.’ Charles nodded. ‘Yes, and that’s going to get worse, much worse. Soon.’ ‘Just like you say.’ ‘So what’s the answer to that?’ ‘Steel frames, floor, walls, roof trusses, metal roofing, all in a flat pack. Design a standard village house, mass produced, made so you could put it up with simple tools, something that bolted together, hand spanner comes with it. It’d be strong enough to stand up to the worst winds, and fireproof. Tank inside, getting clean water off the roofs. Save a lot of lives.’ Charles picked up a chicken leg and began to chew it. ‘And that would be made in your new industrial centre too?’ ‘There could be any kind of steel fabrication there. We don’t have to go on shipping iron ore, much better to make steel beams, plate, cladding, whatever. Value added.’ ‘Damnably plausible, when you think about it…’ Charles muttered. ‘Yes, once you start to consider your proposition, all sorts of possibilities suggest themselves… You know, these are hefty new ideas. Revolutionary even.’ ‘I hadn’t thought about it that way.’ ‘Then don’t sound apologetic. Some people have to have the new ideas, and God knows there are few enough of them.’ ‘Are we ready now for fruit salad?’ Julie asked. ‘Ice cream with your’s, Jake?’ ‘Yes thanks, Mrs Grant.’ ‘So let’s get off men’s business, Beth and I are ready for pudding. And seeing we might be seeing more of each other, Jake, I come to Julie, so how about you call me Julie?’ He returned her smile. ‘OK then Julie… Beth took me for a drive in your car the other day. It’s terrific. So quiet, smooth, fast.’ ‘Yes, it can really take off,’ Beth said enthusiastically. ‘Leaves everything else dead at the lights.’ ‘Hey, get that look off your face,’ her mother said. ‘You’re not to break my car, see?’ There was general laughter at this. The rest of the meal passed pleasantly enough in small talk and family prattle. Like most people who work hard and live a Spartan existence Jake quite enjoyed this. When the big clock on the wall chimed two, Julie said: ‘What’re you two going to do next? Tennis? There’s a court out the back.’ ‘I’ve never learned to play tennis,’ Jake said. ‘Never had time.’ ‘Then you can start now, we’ll have a hit around.’ Beth glanced at him. ‘Yes, your shoes’ll do.’ ‘Shoes?’ He looked down at them. ‘Yes, dummy, your crappy shoes. Maybe I should buy you new ones.’ ‘And maybe you could pull your head in, small change. Check?’ ‘Birdies in their little nests agree.’ Julie’s inane statement was greeted by hoots of laughter from Beth and Jake. ‘I have to keep him in order,’ Beth said. ‘Ditto to you too.’ But once on the court he felt at a distinct disadvantage. ‘Can’t hit the bloody thing!’ ‘Oh, you will. I’ll just keep knocking them over to you…no, not in front of you, hold it out to the side. Right side, you are right-handed?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘That’s better. Try and hit it harder.’ ‘You’re getting good,’ she said twenty minutes later. ‘That’s enough for now, backhand and serving another day. You think you