might like tennis?’ ‘Yes. Could be, some time when I’m not quite so busy with things.’ ‘Poor tired old thing… Got enough energy for a walk on the beach?’ ‘You’re on.’ After a while just walking in companionable silence she said: ‘Dad was interested in what you were saying, Jake, I could see that. So am I, I think it’s…it’s exciting.’ ‘Didn’t think it’d interest a girl much.’ ‘There you go, you’re as bad as the rest of them… I reckon most of us, the great unwashed, you know, even the female unwashed, worry that things are altogether too quiet here.’ ‘What, in Perth?’ ‘No, the whole country. We don’t seem to be doing anything, just running on the spot.’ ‘Sliding backwards, more like — maybe we’ve had it easy for too long.’ ‘But you’ve had an idea, Jake, a good idea. Dad’s always complaining that none of his students have any ideas at all.’ ‘That’s getting to be a habit — not having ideas, I mean, even if you have some, you shut up about them, wouldn’t do to seem different from everyone else.’ ‘Oh, I know, girls especially, girls aren’t supposed to have ideas. The word is boys don’t like them to have ideas…and Jake, would you do something for me?’ ‘What is it? Don’t ask me to rob a bank.’ ‘Idiot! No, could you please not call me small change? I can see you think that’s funny, but so many people have called me that, I could scream! I’ve always wanted to be bigger. When I was little I dreamed about stretching myself, in this old book I saw a picture of people being tortured on the rack and I thought, well… Anyway, if you’re big, you get along, look at elephants, tigers. Small, people just don’t see you.’ He was observant enough to see she was at least mildly distressed, and put an arm round her shoulder. She didn’t seem to mind, so he went on: ‘I won’t say those words again, I promise, I’ll just say, beautiful. Beth is beautiful.’ ‘Oh.’ ‘Beth I like you a lot, a whole lot. Just the way you are.’ ‘And Jake, I feel like that too…about you…but I’m so new to all this. There hasn’t been anyone else, you know. From what you hear around the place I shouldn’t have my heart on my sleeve, I should be playing hard to get.’ There was silence again for twenty paces or so while he thought about this, then he said: ‘No Beth, I like it that you’re so straight about things, not trying to play games.’ ‘Let’s leave it at that for now. Race you to the end of the beach.’ After that hundred metres or so, both flushed, breathing hard, they stopped and faced each other. Then Jake kissed her, a modest, tentative kiss at first, but later… ‘That wasn’t leaving it…’ ‘…at that. No. You didn’t like it?’ ‘I… I won’t say that.’ ‘I’m glad. I’ve never kissed a girl that way before.’ ‘Well, you got it right.’ She glanced around. ‘Not a soul around up here, why don’t we do it again?’ ‘I think I know Betty well enough to be sure she’ll keep him at arm’s length,’ Julie said. She and Charles were talking about Jake. ‘For a while,’ Charles muttered. ‘Raging hormones, like they say.’ ‘Oh come on, don’t be awful.’ ‘I’m not, just being realistic. Anyway, I know you’re aching to be a grandma.’ ‘I am not either. Give her time, she’s just a child still.’ ‘Like you said, not so long ago they believed in marrying them off young to keep them out of trouble.’ When she glanced at him she was not smiling. ‘Well, he seemed a nice boy to me.’ ‘Yes, and also interesting,’ Charles muttered. ‘Is he? All that about the tides and whatever.’ Charles gave a sigh of exasperation. ‘Why is it women seem so set against men having ideas? Maybe they think men should just be taking them out, buying them presents, plenty of endurance in bed.’ Julie rolled her eyes. ‘Sounds great to me.’ The Kimberley, which occupies the north-west corner of the Australian continent, is indeed one of the most remote and least settled places in the world. Three times the size of England, it has barely 40,000 people, about half of whom are the aborigines who first came here 45,000 thousand years ago. It might have been them, it might have been someone else. We’ll never know. But somebody did, and whoever they were they were pretty smart, they made the hundreds of rock paintings scattered through the Kimberley, some of them such competent, sophisticated pictures they might have been modern art. A huge complex of cave systems, waterfalls, spectacular