gorges, lush rainforest and the fertile plains of the lower Ord River, the region has an arresting almost alien look to it, from the beehive shaped stripy crags of the Bungle Bungles to the golden beaches on the Indian Ocean coast. And it is red, red, red. Red soil, red cliffs facing the seas. But much of this red landscape is forbidding trackless desert, with nothing much but clumps of prickly spinifex grass, low scrub struggling to survive and sometimes fat boab trees. You don’t go far from the coast before you’re into that other sea, an eternity of waves and troughs, but the waves are dunes of deep orange sand, trillions of grains of sands that get on the move when the wind blows, blinding sandstorms that can last for hours. The Great Sandy, the Gibson, these are truly huge, harsh deadly deserts that make up the red heart of Australia. The native people of this land can survive there, but few others even venture into these sun-baked wildernesses, or have any reason to do so. There the sun can be deadly. As it rises mirages form, shimmering and bobbing, so this improbable landscape becomes all the more unreal. Most living creatures there are small, like ants, evolved to survive on the barest minimum of food and water. All ours, and what do we do with it? the Australian Prime Minister, David Hammond, thought as he stared down at the map that covered most of his desk. Hardy and well-heeled types in four wheel drives struggled over its few roads during the cooler dry season, but few ventured there during the extraordinary fury of the wet, when rivers like the Ord and the Fitzroy turn from a series of disconnected water holes into raging torrents. Hammond thought there must be something — but of course we had already tried, directing the flooded Ord into Lake Argyle, one of the world’s biggest manmade bodies of water. It was hoped the irrigated land around the lake would develop into a huge food bowl, but weird things happened, mass plagues of insects, even of birds, that destroyed the crops. So now the major crop was Indian sandalwood, food crops like melons, chick peas, bananas had given place to the biggest commercial production of Indian sandalwood in the world. Sandalwood? ‘Big money in it,’ his chief of staff, Chuck Wilshire said when the prime minister raised the issue. ‘The oil and wood are both very valuable, there’s a huge demand in India and China.’ ‘And I thought it was stuff Aladdin raised next to the cave.’ ‘Maybe he did,’ Wilshire, who had no sense of humour, responded. ‘A mob called TFS has the largest plantation of sandalwood anywhere, around ten and a half thousand hectares.’ ‘I’m thoroughly confused. Doesn’t sandalwood grow here wild, all over the place?’ ‘Yes it does, it’s an Australian native, our forestry people manage it, the general idea is to encourage planting but avoid over-exploitation.’ ‘So why do we grow the Indian one?’ ‘I’m not totally up to speed on that, maybe it’s better suited to the tropics, but I think the main reason is that other things just haven’t worked.’ Hammond nodded. ‘Like cotton — that was a flop, wasn’t it?’ ‘Yes, the growers struggled with huge numbers of insect pests for eleven years, the crops had to be sprayed every few days. That couldn’t last.’ ‘Then all those birds. Bizarre.’ ‘Magpie geese — yes, they turned up in thousands just as the rice crop was ripening. Ate the lot. Then they took over the airport, it got to be unmanageable.’ ‘There must be something.’ Hammond intervened. ‘Oh yes, vegetables, fruit, bananas, mangoes. But food crops go off very quickly and the place is just too far from markets.’ ‘More than a billion dollars we’ve spent there,’ the prime minister mused. ’We were promised a food bowl that’d feed the world, but…’ Wilshire nodded sympathetically. ‘Happens with a lot of tropical agriculture schemes, they just haven’t worked out. And now, with things hotting up…’ Hammond began to tap his desktop with his little finger — those who knew him well recognized this as an expression of extreme impatience. ‘In spite of all that they’re at it again, expanding the Ord irrigation area, and I’m told we’re to throw in another couple of hundred million. Something to do with cockatoos.’ ‘That’d be Cockatoo Sands, not far from Kununurra. Free-draining red loam, quite a good prospect.’ ‘For more sandalwood trees, I suppose.’ ‘I hope not.’ Lights flashed on the intercom on Hammond’s desk. ‘Yes, Esme?’ ‘Mr Cleary’s been waiting for seven minutes, sir.’ ‘All right, send him in.’ What, he mused, was it the director of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation wanted of him this