he always did, doing his best to get his thoughts through to the animal. Dogs were dogs, you had to think and behave dog to them, he hated the way people dressed them up, cuddled them and called them their babies and little darlings. Many times he’d seen dogs, mostly small dogs, treated that way, they’d turn around and look at you, plainly asking: ‘What the hell is she on about?’ ‘Hi guy,’ Jake said quietly. ‘You’re illegal, here on the beach.’ There was a ‘No Dogs’ sign quite close by. ‘Dogs can’t read,’ she said. So those were the first words she actually said to him, ‘Dogs can’t read.’ He turned and looked at her, until she flushed. ‘You’re liking what you see?’ Jake glanced away, muttering ‘Sorry.’ He had never been that good with girls, they were different, in difficult ways. Then she smiled, it lit up her face, a small girl, slim too, shortish hair of nondescript colour, face a bit too rounded to be really beautiful, but Jake thought she was from the start. ‘He slipped the lead,’ she said in more friendly tones. ‘Then it was down to the water right away.’ ‘That’s the Labrador in him. What’s his name?’ ‘Danny.’ ‘Hello Danny.’ The dog, who was sitting patiently at his feet, wagged his tail slightly as he heard his name. ‘He’s an old dog, he doesn’t usually take to people that quick,’ she said, feeling mildly jealous. ‘You must be a dog kind of person.’ ‘I’d hate it if a dog didn’t like me. They usually do.’ She nodded, presumably approving of these sentiments. ‘I’ve had Danny since I was a little kid… D’you come here often?’ ‘Just at weekends. Week days are, well… you know, week days.’ ‘Yes. Saturdays are…great. It’s a lovely beach.’ ‘The best. But you’re new around here, aren’t you? I haven’t seen you here before.’ She nodded. ‘About three months…we were in Sydney before… I’m Elizabeth Grant. People call me Betty, Beth.’ That was her way, as he would find, to be very direct in everything she said. ‘So I can call you Beth,’ he said carefully. ‘If you want, I like that better.’ A slightly bigger wave rippled in, crept those last inches over the sand to touch their toes. ‘Tide’s coming in,’ he said. ‘Yes, so it is. Goes in and out. The tide, I mean.’ What an inane thing to say, she thought. But he didn’t seem to notice. ‘Of course. Most people never bother to think about why it does that. But it gets to me, I mean, that we have a moon and when it goes round the earth it hurries all that water along and the tides go up and down. It’s a huge force, very big…’ He paused, Beth felt a brief pang of regret as the light went out of his eyes. ‘Sorry, you might not be interested.’ ‘Oh, but I am. I just hadn’t really thought about it that much,’ then she bit her lip and the flush that came to her face so easily was there again. They both tensed as that awkward silence came, the one that’s there so often while people are getting to know each other. Will we like each other, won’t we? She looked away from him, up towards the car park. She’s going. I can’t just let her go. Then he blurted: ‘Can I see you again, Beth? I’d… I’d like that.’ She hesitated briefly, then said: ‘Maybe. We’ve known each other, what? Five minutes?’ ‘That can change. We can change it.’ She gave him a long look. ‘All right. Why not?’ Fossicking in her bag, she got out pencil and paper. ‘That’s the number. But I’d better warn you, I’m a bit old-fashioned…about things. Is that all right with you?’ ‘Yes. I am myself… I don’t like girls swearing, always saying…’ ‘Fuck? Every sentence, a lot of them. They think it’s cool, but it’s just…just a waste of breath. So I don’t say it, also I don’t do it.’ Jake hesitated a few moments before he replied. ‘I’ve got no problem with that…’ although of course that wasn’t really so…’and I think so many girls swear because all their friends do… You know about 1066?’ ‘1066, the date? Of course. Everybody does. Norman Con­quest. Over there. Britain.’ ‘Yeah. Lot of Frenchies came over and beat up the Saxons. It wasn’t too hard because the locals were scrapping among themselves, anyway. Now up till then all those four letter words were normal, people used them all the time. But once the Normans were the bosses everything Saxon got to be disreputable, including those words.’ She stared at him in wonder. ‘That’s amazing.’ By this she meant that here were