facts that gave you a new slant on things, as occasionally happened in ordinary schooling. ‘You say interesting things, Jake.’ ‘Not everyone thinks so. Lots of people when you say something that’s not what everyone says, you don’t see them as much as before…’ ‘White bread,’ Beth said. ‘Come again?’ ‘Lots of time at school, the kids that had been given brown bread for lunch got a bad time, sometimes they’d just bin their lunch so the other kids didn’t see it. The white bread crowd could be really nasty.’ ‘That’s right. So in the end you just shut up and go along with the mob.’ Beth smiled — he was getting more and more interesting. ‘So how about tomorrow morning?’ he asked. ‘About ten o’clock, coffee at the kiosk here, can you do that? It’ll have to be just coffee. I don’t have much…’ ‘Yes, I can do tomorrow… Oh, and I’ll pay for my own. OK, ten in the morning… But you’ve forgotten something.’ ‘Have I?’ ‘Your name, idiot, you haven’t told me your name.’ They both laughed, and this chased away the sense of strain that had been there up till now. ‘I should’ve warned you, at school they called me the absent-minded prof… It’s Jake. Jake Hazzard.’ ‘Hi there, Jake.’ She extended her hand and he took it. It was cool and smooth. ‘I’ll look forward to tomorrow. You know something Beth? You’re the good thing that was going to happen to me today, I reckon.’ She seemed to consider this quite carefully, then said: ‘Thank you… I’m glad Danny likes you.’ Then she was off up the hill, the dog behind her. Jake watched them, but Beth didn’t look back. Back home, she looked at herself in the mirror. Hips a bit wide, she thought, feet definitely too big. And small, most of me, so small once I used to wonder if people really noticed me at all. He likes me, I could see he likes me. A boy likes me. And of course he’s a bit shy, that would’ve made it hard for him to say that, I was the good thing that’d happen to him today. Not really a dreamboat, of course, but nice-looking, big and strong. And I could be his good thing. What would happen tomorrow, what would he say? Maybe weeks, months away, he might say I love you. She was still turning this thought over in her mind when her mother, Julie Grant, knocked at the door. ‘It’s on the table.’ ‘I’ll be right there.’ ‘Just the two of us?’ she said as they sat down. ‘He’s working late tonight. A seminar.’ ‘He works too hard.’ ‘I don’t think so. People like their work, it mostly comes easy to them. How was the beach?’ ‘Good.’ ‘Did you swim?’ ‘No. I walked along with Danny, and…’ Beth never lied to her mother, or kept things back from her, they were very good friends as well as being mother and daughter. ‘Yes?’ ‘Talked.’ ‘And was he nice?’ Beth looked up sharply. Her mother never ceased to surprise her. ‘Bit soon to tell. He talked about the tides.’ ‘Tides?’ ‘Yes, I liked that, that he was thinking about something like that, and actually said it to me. Most boys talk to you like you were a dumb animal, like you had no brains.’ ‘Not just boys — a lot of them never grow out of it, men, I mean.’ Julie said ruefully. ‘Daddy’s not like that.’ ‘No, he isn’t, we’re lucky, aren’t we?’ ‘He asked me to have coffee with him tomorrow morning. Jake did. At the beach kiosk.’ ‘Jake. Nice plain name. Are you going?’ Beth reached over for another large slice of the meringue. ‘Yes. Of course.’ Charles Grant’s seminar ran from eight till ten, so he was home late. Beth had already gone to bed, thinking about what she was going to wear tomorrow morning. Julie glanced at her husband as he slumped down in a chair, looking tired, not very happy. His face was pale, there were quite a few wrinkles and more grey up there now. However, he got up, enclosed her in his bear hug and kissed her. ‘More beautiful every day.’ This ritual, even the words, had happened, probably, thousands of times even, but they always gave her a quick thrill of pleasure, she would be less than happy if he forgot them even once. ‘Food?’ he enquired. ‘In the oven. Shepherd’s pie. But what about a drink first…? No, stay there, I’ll get it.’ As usual it was Scotch, a decent single malt. Charles Grant was not a big drinker, but he liked the best. Julie made it a double, added just the right amount of water, and mixed