a light g and t for herself. ‘A good day?’ she asked. He frowned. ‘I’ve known worse. But tonight got under my skin a lot. Seminars, you know, they’re supposed to be about kicking ideas around, even silly ideas. But tonight I had thirty of what’s supposed to be my best people there.’ His students were always his people. ‘Most’ll graduate next year, supposedly assets to the community. But tonight they just looked at me, waiting for me to say something. And when they did talk, it was routine speak, stuff straight out of the textbooks. New ideas, opinions? No, nothing.’ ‘There must be some good ones.’ ‘A few. They’re mostly Chinese or Korean.’ Julie nodded. ‘The Chinese are taking the place over, quietly. Downtown, they’re everywhere, it’s like Singapore. Of course they’ll be very pleasant and diplomatic about the takeover, but it’ll happen.’ ‘Taking over the country? Yes, eventually, de facto,’ Charles said gloomily, ‘and it doesn’t help that academically most young Australians are way behind. How’s it the new gener­ation’s got so screwed up…? Saw Terry Lane in the street at lunchtime.’ ‘Terry who?’ ‘He’s our plumber, plumbers do have names, you know… Anyway he told me he’d gone through four young Australian kids trying to organize an apprentice before he actually got one willing to do anything. He reckoned the others thought a job was a place where you turned up and they gave you money. The third one he tried, when Terry asked him to do something the boy looked at him and said… “No, you do it.”’ ‘It’s the way their parents brought them up, giving them everything they asked for,’ she said, ‘and then they’re unhappy when you ask them to do anything that gets them away from their iPads, their computer games.’ Charles sloshed his Scotch around in the glass, scowling at the amber patterns. ‘Not just the kids, what about the pollies, they’re just as short on ideas. Labour, Coalition, tarred with the same brush, just a political class really, looking after itself. Thing in the paper this morning, saying that soon this country’ll have the smallest manufacturing base in the developed world. Behind places like Ghana, for God’s sake!’ ‘So what would you do?’ ‘Not really my part of the forest, but we’ve got to do something, not just drift along the way we are.’ Julie got to her feet. ‘Another Scotch?’ ‘No thanks.’ ‘You’re tired. So, off to bed?’ ‘Right with you.’ The conjugal bed…just another phrase, she thought. But it really did mean something, that item of furniture did acquire meaning, importance, even a kind of authority, over the years. When they were comfortably tucked in she said: ‘By the way, our girl’s got herself a boy. Name’s Jake. She met him on the beach this morning, she’s having coffee with him tomorrow. It might be serious, she’s got that look about her.’ ‘Hells bells, she’s still at school.’ ‘Last year. She is eighteen, after all.’ ‘Eighteen is very young.’ ‘Is it? Girls start to notice boys when they’re thirteen, sometimes younger. Not so long ago girls were married at fourteen or fifteen. Juliet, how old was she when she was hankering after Romeo? Twelve.’ ‘This is the 21st century,’ he growled. She laughed. ‘You sound like…what? A bull elephant rounding up his females, getting stuck into any rival male that turns up. You might have to get used to being nice to Jake, Charlie. If he’s still around in a week or two he can come here for dinner.’ ‘Is that strictly necessary?’ ‘Yes, I want to see what he’s like.’ When he leaned over to put out the bedside lamps she added: ‘I had a thought, just a thought, to wake up the kids, say to them, sit down with your computer games all day, that’s OK, but make sure you learn how to say “Yes master” in Mandarin.’ He raised his eyebrows. ‘Not bad thinking… ah, bed, bed, bed.’ ‘A pity you’re feeling so tired.’ As intended, she found herself in the bear hug again. ‘Not that tired.’ Purchase the complete ebook of Firebird Back to the Firebird main page Chapter 2 Jake stared at the screen — a photo of a freighter high and dry on the beach at Broome, waiting for the tide to race back in across the sand flats. It could rise and fall as much as twelve metres there, nearly as high as a three storey building, and this happened along a thousand kilometres of the northwest Australian coast — variable, of course, between spring and neap tides, but predictable months, years ahead, a huge amount of energy, all that water rising and falling. Wasted. As Jake impatiently refined his search he wondered at how little