real information there was about this subject. Just scraps here and there…tidal power was used as early as the 11th century to mill grain, so what…? Most of what was around were simple barrage systems, containing the rising tide, then releasing it at low water. Then he found tidal lagoons, and as he came to understand what they were the ideas floating around in his head clicked together into a single concept. King Sound? He had loaded Google Earth and was just about to zoom in on the sound, far off to the north on the west Kimberley coast, when he glanced at the clock on the wall. Just after half past nine, and he was due to meet Beth at ten. The coastal search would have to wait. But he had read enough to know that King Sound was big, more than a hundred kilometres long and fifty wide — almost a sea in its own right. The tide came in as fast as a man could walk across that vast mudflat. Walking fast he got to the kiosk ahead of time, and was standing in the sun, his thoughts still hovering about the Kimberley until he had to move as a low slung red car edged into a narrow parking place. It crossed his mind that he hadn’t heard it coming. Then Beth stepped out of it. ‘Where’s your bike?’ ‘Got a flat. So Mum let me have her car. Hello.’ ‘Hi.’ But his attention was plainly on the car — just like a man, she thought. ‘Hey, this is a Volt, I haven’t seen one before, I know what they are, of course.’ ‘It goes on electricity. My people are mad on that sort of thing. Dad has a Tesla.’ ‘That’s even more money…you must be the fairy princess.’ She scowled. ‘That meant to be funny? My family’s reasonably well off, I suppose. Anyway, does it matter?’ ‘Princess and the beggar boy — I’m a super-market trolley boy.’ ‘What’s that?’ ‘You must have seen us, guys pushing long rows of trolleys up from the car park.’ She stared at him curiously. ‘Jake, just take notice my people are not jumped up, not in any way. But why are you pushing trolleys around?’ ‘To get money. But I don’t do it all the time. I’m a student. Engineering. Look, I’m sorry Beth, I’ve been saying stupid, dopey things… I don’t know why the hell... You make me confused.’ ‘But there’s nothing confusing about me.’ ‘Only that you’re you...you’re so pretty…and —‘This time she was really blushing, and staring down at her toes. ‘Table over there,’ he said, acutely conscious of how odd this conversation still was. ‘You sit down and I’ll… How do you like your coffee?’ ‘Latte, thanks, no sugar. And here’s three dollars… No, take it… Most people don’t think I’m pretty.’ She sat down at the table, which had quite a view over the beach to the sea. Jake felt that last remark deserved an answer, but he couldn’t think of anything, just sloped off to get the coffee. I am stuffing this up, he thought despairingly, what will this girl think about me? But when he came back to the table and put the coffee cups down he was thanked with a generous smile. ‘You’re funny, Jake. You really are funny.’ ‘I told you, it’s you. Most times I make sense when I talk. My mother reckons I have the gift of the gab, tongue hinged in the middle and swings both ways.’ She reached out and took his hand. For the second time he thought her’s seemed incredibly cool and smooth. ‘You can relax. I’m only a girl, you know. And I’ll tell you something. Last night I googled…guess what...? Tides.’ ‘Tides?’ ‘Yes. It was a bit unusual, you talking to me about them, most boys don’t…and anyway I wanted to know about them. They’re complicated, aren’t they? I thought it was just the moon did its thing, and they went up and down the same way everywhere. But it’s not.’ ‘No, different places, different tides…practically nothing in the Mediterranean, and they go up and down maybe ten metres over here…places like Derby.’ ‘Derby, that’s somewhere up north, isn’t it?’ ‘Just a little town on a big shallow bay called King Sound. The tides really roar in, up and down a lot of creeks.’ ‘Oh yes’. ‘Energy, Beth, a hell of a lot of power.’ She stared at him intently. ‘This is the thing you’ve got on your mind, isn’t it?’ ‘One of two things, you’re the other one.’ She laughed, he noticed how her eyes lit up when she did that. ‘You come on rather sudden, don’t you? I can’t make you out. You seemed so shy,