and then…oh never mind.’ He seemed mildly offended. ‘I say what I think, some people can’t take that.’ She favoured him with another sunny smile. ‘I can, Jake, I’m a bit that way myself... And anyway I do like it that you say that…’ ‘That I like you?’ ‘Yes. And do you?’ ‘Of course I do.’ ‘But you know bugger-all about me.’ He scowled. ‘I thought you said you were old fashioned… Don’t say that, I don’t like you swearing. You know what that word means, don’t you?’ ‘Not really, it’s OK to say bugger but not fuck, confusing… I know what the theory is but I can’t sort of visualize…what they actually do.’ ‘You don’t have to.’ ‘No, I don’t, do I?’ she said pertly, and suddenly both of them burst into torrents of laughter. ‘Anyway Jake, what uni are you at.’ ‘Northern.’ She nodded. ‘My father works there. He’s a professor.’ ‘Yes I know about him. Professor Grant. Urban Planning.’ ‘That’s him… What sort of engineering are you doing?’ ‘Civil. I work on barrages. You know, dams, holding ponds. That sort of thing.’ She wondered what holding ponds were, sounded boring, she thought, searching her mind for something else to say. This was a real problem with boys, what d’you say to them? But Jake glanced at her and, wonderful, he seemed to understand the difficulty, and was ready to do something about it. ‘But what about you Beth, what d’you do?’ Another problem. She hesitated, looking down. ‘I’m still at school…but it’s my last year. I’m eighteen.’ ‘And then what?’ ‘I don’t really know. I’d quite like to be a nurse but they… Mum and Dad you know…they want me to be a doctor. But I don’t think I’ve got enough brains for that.’ ‘Oh, you would have.’ He seemed quite confident about this, ‘But it really is a tough course. Five years too. You could try medicine, then drop it and go over to nursing, if you wanted.’ Beth looked at him doubtfully. What she really wanted was to be a mother, have three at least, but she could hardly say that to him. Men hated to feel trapped, she’d read that in a woman’s mag in the doctor’s waiting room, but you had to have a man for babies. She blushed, quite incomprehensibly to Jake, because she was remembering all that in those sealed sections in those magazines. What would it really be like, she wondered, what would it be like with Jake? At that point, almost like magic, images of her future children flashed into her mind. Two boys, one girl, or was it just one boy? The picture dwindled, leaving her feeling angry at anyone that might make life less than perfect for her children. ‘Too many people want to stuff up the world,’ she said with such venom he was taken aback. ‘That mine. They want to get all their dirty coal, they don’t care about the future. It’s all about money, isn’t it?’ ‘I guess so.’ If only she found it as hard to get money as he did. ‘They’re a big Indian mob. Not too good on the environ­ment in their own place, I hear, so why would they care about mucking up our reef? You were thinking about the Carmichael mine, in the Galilee Basin, I guess…one of the biggest untouched dumps of coal in the world. And that’s how it should stay. Untouched.’ ‘Because of global warming?’ ‘Yes. Burning coal for electricity’s the worst thing we’re doing. So you’re a greenie Beth?’ ‘I’m not sure. I hadn’t thought much about it before.’ Of course quite recently she was just a child, Jake reflected. ‘But now I do think about it, it makes me angry. Our children…’ ‘Our children?’ That blush she could never control warmed her face. ‘Don’t be stupid… I meant all the children, the future children…to do things…business…that they know damn well’s going to make the world a… a ...’ ‘A furnace, and in the middle of it millions of people starving, the sun striking them dead, that’s how it could be. So what are you going to do about it?’ ‘I don’t know. Something.’ ‘It’s hard, you know. A mob of us went up there last month. A bomb of a car, really clapped out, but it kept going. We stopped at all the towns and places, talked about what that mine would do. People listened to us, we were amazed, and they chucked in money so we could buy petrol. Anyway we got there and there was a lot of earthmoving equipment, pipe, metal sheeting, lying about.’ He shrugged. ‘But we couldn’t afford good chain, thick stuff, too expensive. We just had little chains when we chained ourselves to