the bulldozers. After a while the cops came. They were quite decent really. One of them said he felt the same way we did, but he had to do his job, we’d better go home. They had bolt-cutters that cut the chain real easy. We hung around for a day or two, but nothing else happened. There wasn’t even anyone around. ‘So we high-tailed off south again but two days on our transport blew up. Head gasket. We had to ditch it and hitch after that.’ Beth hadn’t the faintest idea what a head gasket was, but that didn’t matter. ‘You actually went there and did all that!’ ‘For what it’s worth, but demos like that don’t get you very far. ‘ ‘So what else can you do?’ ‘I don’t know,’ he said after some thought. ‘Some more coffee?’ ‘No thanks… But Jake, why don’t we go for a drive in the Volt?’ ‘That’d be great.’ ‘All right, off we go. But being my mother’s car, I don’t think you can drive it. Just come for a ride with me.’ It was his turn to look crestfallen. ‘I couldn’t anyway. I can’t drive, that is, I can drive but I haven’t got my license yet. I don’t even have a car.’ ‘I’ve only had my Ps two months. And you have to be really careful with this car. It’s so fast, but…’ ‘Yes, that’s the electric motor…constant torque right from the jump.’ How could a car talk? she wondered vaguely. ‘I don’t know whether she’ll be home for lunch,’ Julie Grant said nervously. ‘Should I keep something for her?’ ‘If I were you, I’d stop worrying,’ her husband said. ‘You say that because you’re not a woman. Mothers understand how important their daughter’s first love is, even if it doesn’t last.’ ‘And it probably won’t. A bit soon to talk about love anyway, isn’t it?’ ‘Maybe. But she had that look about her. Shiny eyes.’ ‘I’d better have a talk to her. Young guys like that, they’re only interested in their belly and what hangs from it.’ ‘You will not! Let her have her joy, her amazement, her illusions, if you like, without any sordid talk from you.’ ‘All right. I guess you’ve talked to her, anyway, haven’t you?’ ‘Of course I have.’ ‘Birds and bees?’ She glared at him. ‘And you can shut up!’ At that moment Beth came in the door. Her mother glanced at her anxiously. Yes, she thought with a trace of envy, she still had those eyes. Charles glanced at his watch. ‘Hi big girl…see you later. I have to get back.’ ‘See you, dad.’ ‘You want some lunch?’ Julie asked, ‘Or did you…?’ ‘No. We just had coffee. Jake hasn’t got a lot of money. He’s a student, engineering. But you know, down at Coles, you see these guys pushing a long line of trolleys around? He does that twenty hours a week to get money.’ ‘Mostly they seem to be Indian, Asian of some kind any­way. Is he?’ She felt vaguely guilty as she asked this, did it really matter if he were black, brown or brindle? ‘No, he’s white, mother.’ Being called ‘mother’ meant she was being chastened in some way. ‘Nothing wrong with Indians, of course,’ she muttered vaguely. ‘No, but you wouldn’t like to see me shack up with one of them, would you?’ ‘You seem very taken with Jake, dear.’ ‘I think he’s nice. We’re going to see more of each other. Maybe a lot more.’ ‘Not too much, I hope.’ ‘You mean I’m not to let him knock me up?’ ‘Beth!’ ‘That’s what you meant, wasn’t it? No, nothing like that’s going to happen until I decide it’s going to happen.’ Julie considered herself modern but now, she reflected, there really is a generation gap. She was still agitated when Charles came home. ‘I asked her, I sort of asked her, you know, to be careful with Jake… and she said, she said did that mean he wasn’t to knock her up… I’ve never used that sort of language in my life.’ ‘But that was what you meant, wasn’t it?’ ‘I suppose so. That’s what she said.’ ‘If she said a four letter word —’ ‘She didn’t actually, but I got the meaning. There is such a thing as being too broadminded,’ she said, quite sharply. ‘Anyway, I’m worried about this Jake thing, and so you should be too.’ ‘No, I’m not going to worry about it, but I am interested. And you can be assured I have our daughter’s interests at heart.’ ‘Then there’s the Kimberley thing. She’s got her mind on that.’ ‘Kimberley?’ ‘Yes. Where exactly is it anyway?’ ‘You’re still talking like a New South Welshman… It’s in WA, but