about as far away as you can get and still be in Australia, a wild place, one of the wildest on the planet. Have you ever heard her mention it before?’ ‘No, never. It’s Jake again, of course. I said we might take a holiday there and she said, don’t bother, I expect I’ll be going there with Jake.’ Charles raised his eyebrows. ‘So Jake’s interested in the Kimberley. He’s doing engineer­ing, and he’s also interested in tides. I draw certain inferences from that… Beth might have snared someone with some brains, good, one of my great horrors’s been a brainless hunk for a son in law. And having to dandle some little cretin grand-kids on my knee.’ ‘You actually think about that?’ ‘Well, why not? Once a guy gets to be family, you’re stuck with him, aren’t you?’ This conversation was still at the back of his mind the next morning, when he dropped into the common room for coffee. Charles had not got especially close to Tom Wilson, who ranked as a professor in the engineering department, but they were acquainted. Wilson was sitting at a table alone, staring down at some papers when Charles approached him. ‘Now would I be interrupting something important?’ Wilson looked up and grinned. ‘Hullo, Charles, isn’t it…? You settling in OK...? No, not a bit, this is just some of the endless marking.’ ‘I’ll get my brew and come back.’ When he sat down again Charles asked: ‘How do you find all that…the general standard of the student effort.’ ‘Pretty bloody poor. Most can’t write, a fair few can’t spell either… I’d lose interest completely if it weren’t for the handful that are showing promise.’ ‘My experience too. My wife blames it all on computer games.’ ‘Something in that, but they’ve all had iPads, smart phones since they were kids. It’s cumulative, a whole new way of learning. You don’t actually have to learn anything, you just Google it. You have thoughts on all this? What we do about it?’ ‘I’m trying to have them, but I haven’t got very far.’ ‘Ditto…anyway Charles you didn’t sit down here just to pass the time of day…what’s on your mind?’ Grant stared at the ceiling momentarily. ‘You might see this as out of court…but I have an interest in a student in your faculty. You’re a big department, he might not’ve come to your attention. The name’s Jake Hazzard.’ ‘We have him down as James Hazzard. Yes, I know him quite well…you don’t mind telling me why you’re interested?’ ‘Not a bit. My daughter’s picked him up. Her first boy, and all the indications are it’s pretty intense.’ ‘How old’s your daughter?’ ‘Eighteen. My wife wants to ask him for dinner.’ Wilson smiled. ‘Understood… Well, Hazzard is a bright boy, and like many such he’s got problems… Nothing serious, nothing really to worry about.’ ‘So why do you mention them?’ ‘The boy’s a maverick, he has ideas right outside the box. People like that invariably have a chaotic life…’ ’…because the orthodox want to tear them down? But to get back to his ideas, would tidal power be one of them?’ Wilson gave him a hard glance. ‘Plainly, you’ve talked with young Hazzard.’ ‘I’ve never met him… He’s talked to Betty — that’s my daughter — about the Kimberley, the big tides there. She’s full of it.’ ‘Because she perceives he’s interested… Ah yes, King Sound, that idea’s been around for years, the potential for huge amounts of power. Trouble is, what do you do with it? We’re the nearest big city, couple of thousand kilometres away. Building transmission lines that far, no way at all that could work. But getting back to young Hazzard, he seems a decent kid. Keeps his hair and fingernails short, a bit withdrawn rather than aggressive. Your girl ought to be OK with him.’ ‘That’s the sort of thing I wanted to know, thank you, Tom’. Purchase the complete ebook of Firebird Back to the Firebird main page Chapter 3 The Grant house was large and rambling, set well back in a pleasant but slightly dishevelled garden — just what you’d expect a successful academic to live in, Jake thought, as he eyed it apprehensively. He was worried about his clothes, especially his shoes, but they were the best he had. When he knocked at the front door it opened promptly to reveal a smallish, fair woman with a marked resemblance to Beth. And yes, her eyes dropped momentarily to his shoes, then she said: ‘You must be Jake. So glad you were able to… Come on in then.’ ‘Thanks Mrs Grant,’ he muttered as he went inside. This hardly seemed adequate, and he was still striving to think what more he could