say to her when she said: ‘You just sit over there next to Professor Grant.’ But Charles protested at once. ‘Don’t like being called professor in my own home. Charles it is... Sit down Jake.’ Beth was opposite him, looking at him gravely. He grinned at her and she smiled back. ‘You’re from the country, Jake?’ Julie asked. ‘My people are farmers, down south, just in from Mandulah.’ ‘Drought’s still bad there?’ Charles asked. ‘Rotten. This is the third year. The banks are at his heels.’ ‘Bastards.’ ‘I guess they want their money, they’d sell us up if they could, but the way things are there are no buyers.’ Australia was a country of droughts, Charles reflected, but this one was of unusual proportions, just as they were now in so many parts of the world, a manifestation of the changing climate. ‘Beth tells us you’re almost through your course.’ ‘Yes, I’ll finish this year, then…’ ‘You’ll go on, post grad, if you get a good pass?’ ‘I’m not too sure…people who’ve got doctorates are driving taxis. And geologists now, a few years ago it looked like they’d be made for life, but since the mining boom fizzled out, you’ve got a degree, useless, there aren’t any jobs.’ Charles nodded, frowning slightly. ‘Think laterally…find a niche not too many other people are occupying.’ ‘I’m turning that over in my mind, but meanwhile I’m getting a bit tired of all work and no money.’ Yes, no help from home for this one, while the drought held, Charles reflected. ‘What sort of engineering are you into?’ he asked. ‘Oh, civil. Dams, barrages.’ ‘Barrages?’ ‘He has a thing about tides,’ Beth put in. ‘Tides, yes, interesting,’ Jake said slowly. All that water going up and down twice a day, ten, twelve metres, just like a million waterfalls… We don’t use it, but think, it’s our biggest reliable source of clean energy.’ ‘I guess that’s right,’ Charles said. ‘I hadn’t really thought of it that way before. But you know as well as I do why we don’t use it.’ ‘I know the general view, you generate power up in the Kimberley, what do you do with it— the nearest decent market is down here in Perth, too far away, much too far...anyway, the technology’s too undeveloped. End of story. That’s the line we always get, but I’ve been thinking about it. There is another way.’ ‘Really? I can’t think what that’d be.’ ‘Just plain logic— if you can’t take the power to a city, you have to take a city to the power. Then the Kimberley comes alive.’ Charles’ brow creased. ‘What was that? I thought you said…?’ ‘I did. A city, industries, people up there in the Kimberley, it’d have it made, coal, iron, bauxite, uranium, you name it, they’re all there. Plenty of water in the Fitzroy, cheap land, toss in unlimited power for almost nothing, huge markets close by in Asia. Your industry there’d be post-modern, heavily auto­mated.’ ‘Untouched by human hand,’ Charles said thoughtfully. ‘Here, have some more of this casserole. Big boy like you, you need your dinner... You think big too, don’t you? And what would this new city of your’s make?’ ‘Solar thermal power stations, for a start, for this country and for export. We have all the raw materials over here, plenty of iron, sand to make glass for mirrors. Give us an industry again.’ ‘And what are solar thermal power stations?’ Julie asked. ‘Very big machines to generate electricity, a parabolic mirror, it could be a hundred metres long, concentrating sunlight to boil water. The steam drives a turbine, turbine spins a generator. You can make them any size you want.’ ‘And why would you want to?’ ‘Keep the lights on, industry turning over, your air conditioner working, with no pollution, no pollution means we can come to grips with climate change.’ ‘Something I’ve never thought much about,’ Julie said, ‘but I know a lot of people do. So the sun, the tides, would do all the work?’ ‘Yes, they’d work well together, instead of coal. Remember I said people thought tidal technology was too undeveloped? That was true, but not anymore. There’s a new concept being heavily researched called tidal lagoons that’s efficient and practical. Basically you build a U-shaped seawall out from the coast so you end up with an enclosed lagoon. That seawall is studded with turbine generators. The rising and falling tide can only get in and out by passing through those turbines.’ ‘And they’re generating power?’ Charles put in. ‘Yes, fourteen hours a day…but there’s no evidence plan­ners here even know about them, much less consider them.’ ‘Should they be?’ ‘Yes, King Sound in the Kimberley is ideally suited to them, and it’s big